and welcome back to a fresh episode of
the business
growth show i'm delighted to be joined
by mia butler today me as the founder
and director
over at pistachio view and she believes
that vanilla is not an option she's
transforming the way we sell
and communicate using video email to
help you win more customers and get
faster replies mia
a very well welcome to the show how's it
going hey really good thank you
thanks for having me no worries so
looking forward to this one
it's um it's going to be a great topic
as i'm sure
a lot of business owners especially
tuning in may find sales boring
they might may find it rude it may be
something they really just hate doing
but they know it's part of the process
that they need to do to keep
clients coming and keep the cash in the
bank keep the revenue flowing and so
we're gonna be chatting through
oh why it doesn't sales doesn't need to
be boring and how we can interrupt uh
our ideal customers
without without being frustrating
without pissing them off basically um
so let's jump straight into it mia i'd
love to know your thoughts on why sales
doesn't need to be boring as a starting
point
do you know what i think the simple
answer for this
is it all comes down to mindset um
with sales a lot of people have been
conditioned that it's like this
hard push you're pushing out and
interrupting people's days that you're
annoying you're forcing all the things
on them that they might not have thought
about
whereas if you transfer your mindset to
just
about helping people then i think
that's where you have a more positive
love affair with the sales and the sales
function
um and it's easy to fall out of love of
it with it if you're just doing the same
old things
over and over again so you have to
remember that it's about helping people
we all like helping people right
yeah yeah and that makes sense i mean
that's that's certainly something we've
touched on the show before kind of focus
on
on helping rather than focusing on the
end result which might be the sale
um which can of course brush off if
you're talking to customers if you're
talking to prospects
the chances are when you lay on thick
and you're just pushing for the deal
they're probably going to sense some
things up and probably not want to do
business with you right
right for sure for sure there's i think
that
time where we uh all learnt about
features and benefits is now long gone
um so if i think back to my kind of
grassroots sales training
um i was working for a holiday company
so i was just about to head overseas as
a holiday rep
and i bet lots of other sales people
have been through this as well
and i spent a week in a hotel being
conditioned
by the travel company on how to sell
because that tourism income
the sales once they were on site in
resort was massively important to them
and you know what it was massively
important to me too that was my drinking
money right i needed it
but that whole sales training was about
features and benefits and that
you know so what so what why is that
important
and and i kind of feel like i've i've
left
that side of me behind not only that
carefree vodka drinking girl
but this person that you know really
hangs on to features and benefits it's
rare
that i get to having a feature and
benefit conversation
until you know way way down the line
when we're almost you know at the
finishing line
because now it's all about the other
person it's not about me
anymore i don't know how comfortable i
am with that but it's not it's not about
me
yeah no i like that and um i think i can
certainly relate
definitely in my younger days back when
i was 18 19 going back a bit now as i've
just recently turned 30 but um
feels like a year it feels like a
flipping lifetime of girls in the pub as
well on that note but i don't want to go
too far down the rabbit hole
otherwise i'll probably get depressed um
but anyway moving forward i mean you may
mention some good points in terms of not
not focusing on features and benefits
and even back to the topic itself i mean
a lot of business owners i'm sure
finding that the idea the prospect of
selling to people
perhaps frustrating perhaps antagonising
perhaps is something they leave to last
they want to focus on all other angles
of their business
until actually comes to talking to
customers and
and getting getting that business in so
how i don't want to focus the show too
much on mindset but how do we get it in
our minds mere that
we're not actually selling to people who
are our services our products are
actually of value
and we're helping them out by offering
them our wares
yeah i mean where the short answer for
that is that if you don't have sales and
some sort of pipeline then your your
business is going to come to a grinding
cult anyway
so i think you know connecting yourself
with that purpose
is pretty important but you know the
more comfortable you get with
understanding your customers it actually
then gets quite exciting you know we we
like engaging with people
and never more so now that we're in this
changed world we've become you know
removed from
the workplace we're all working from
home so actually the engagement
has got a lot more exciting and so it's
not only a positive part of my day
reaching out to customers and talking to
them
but i'm finding i'm a positive part of
their day
so it's like a really prime time
to you know either re-engage or start
engaging with new customers it's
exciting to talk to people
who'd have thought that's a novelty yeah
yeah especially in fact i guess in the
uk most of us are stuck at
stuck between four walls stuck in our
house wherever we're living yeah
and the fact that it can break up the
day especially if you're speaking to
someone that's
kind of exciting that's offering
offering something of use to you
then that's a really good way to look at
it you're actually not
not just for your own point of view but
from from the people that you're talking
to
that you're adding value to their day so
i like that okay
well jumping into the topic in terms of
how we can actually interrupt our busy
prospects without frustrating without
being annoying
is there a process that you like to
follow mia that you can you can teach us
or something or a way a strategy you've
got in mind that's that's really really
work for yourself
yeah absolutely and i think i think what
we have to work out
is firstly who our ideal customer is and
i think we've talked about this a lot as
a whole
um across the sales industry right now
but the crux of it is if you
don't know what your icp looks like and
the kind of
challenges that they are up against at
the moment so that you know how to walk
in their shoes
then actually you're not going to bring
enough value to the table anyway
in whatever level you're doing but the
way that i like to
follow in my process of connecting with
prospects
is is pretty much trying to use a lot of
different parts in my
selling tool kit i definitely think you
can't be a one-trick pony
so if you love email then you can't just
sit in email
um if you are an advocate of picking up
the phone
then yep that's great but you can't just
rely on picking up the phone
so i think you've got to bring a little
bit of everything to the table
um i definitely start off my process
with social selling
and why wouldn't i you know linkedin is
the place to be um there's no question
about that
is still a great business platform and
you know there's nothing
coming up behind it competing with it
yet so that
direct access to people is is essential
um but it's about connecting with them
on value
on that first level so i i spend most of
my time
not actually thinking about my content
strategy for linkedin
but more about my engagement strategy
because
that's where i feel i bring the most
value
to meeting and connecting with new
people
and most people connect with me after
they've read
a comment or something i've shared on
somebody else's post
and i think that's really interesting
that everybody gets really hung up on
you know what they post and what they
should be great time
quality engagement you're making people
feel good again and it all comes down to
that that people
feeling validated that you've brought
something valuable to the table
so i definitely start out with social
selling
um i'm sure you do too right most of us
yeah i mean i
i'm i'm certainly on linkedin more time
than i care to admit um as
i mentioned this show in fact people
have introduced tools that can can get
me off linkedin
it's probably something something i need
to snap up but definitely like you say
i mean those points will make sense so
to break that down a little bit so we're
talking about
connecting with value having some kind
of engagement strategy based upon where
your idle customers are on
um and the the interesting part about
linkedin not just focusing on content
but focusing on actually engagement
and engaging on post which you can get
to in a sec but you mentioned connecting
on value
connecting with value sorry and also
utilizing all the tools in your toolkit
which i love but could you dive a bit
deeper me into what that actually means
as in does that mean
we need to send someone an email
straight away then send them a video
then we need to give them a voice
message
then we need to call them to check
they've got email or what does that
actually look like
and what does connecting with value mean
yeah of course
so i guess this is always going to be
different for the type of customer and
profile you're working with
but i tend to find that you know my
first few engagements are on linkedin so
by the time we've got a bit of dialogue
going
uh they've recognized that i'm showing
up in their feed and bringing value
to it by adding something valuable to
what they're saying or
asking questions about what they are
talking about that's important to them
right now
um and then my goal is to you know try
and connect with them with a direct
message
um and i do love a pattern interrupt at
this point
um so i'm a huge fan of not only video
email which is
you know my business remit but i use
video dms a lot too
um and the reason i like both you know
both methods but let's stick with
the direct messages at the moment is
that it
people have to click play so it's not
like a short piece of text that you can
ignore
i like the fact that i approach it
with a really bright and breezy attitude
as well so it's always
unapologetically authentically me
um i wish there was a better word for
authentically
um but it's just me and you know i send
a dm that is you know
hey this is me i noticed so something of
value i noticed about them
and see if i can push it to a question
the types of things i avoid are you know
dropping my calendar link or you know
pushing them
to a meeting or anything like that first
that comes later i've got to earn that
and i think that's also something really
important to
you know remember that you gotta earn
these people's time you know i've had
i had at least five emails today from
people saying here's my calendar link
you know why would i do that without us
even having
some sort of discovery call before we
you know i just
drop in your random calendar i just
wouldn't do it would you
i do wonder how many people get replies
when they just stick in the the old two
three paragraphs whether it's an email
whether it's a linkedin message whatever
form of communication it is where you're
just reading through this wall of text
and then there's a calendar link because
how many people actually click that look
at the time it's yes it is mad
okay well i love that video message
breakdown so we've got kind of a nice
personal authentic
intro and we've got a part about you're
mentioning that you've seen something on
their profile
so does that have to be something
specific me or does it have to be
related to what we do or our service or
yeah okay so one of the things that i
don't like seeing is when people reach
out on a connection
based on something that they've just
spotted
on my profile so kind of like i don't
know
if i said i enjoy drinking water and
that's on my profile
then you know that isn't enough for us
to have common ground
and want me to book into your calendar
um and i
feel that's the same for my customer you
know so i can't you know
just say i know i noticed you like
skiing yeah me too
that's great that we have similar likes
and interests
but what we need to do for our customers
right now who are
time poor you know working with
incredible amounts of workload
having a lot of data and intelligence
coming with them
it's come to them with something that's
going to
make them be better off by the end of
speaking to us
and so that means we've got to know
a bit about what's going on in their
world right now and if we and we
we place that at the start by saying you
know
are you struggling to get your emails
open because of
the working from home situation right
now you know it's so frustrating just
getting those no replies and being
ghosted and they're going yeah that that
is exactly what's happening to me right
now i can't bear
it um so just having them nod with you
at the first instance is really
important
but it it can't be how it used to be by
just saying i noticed on your profile
it's just not enough go deep
like it okay and then just raising
raising a question
at the end you mention again does that
have to be something that's that's
relevant that's really
we've got to spend two five ten minutes
researching their profile
or looking at their website or is it
gonna be simpler than that
yeah i do know a call to action for me
um
is is just a way to move the
conversation forward my ideal
scenario with linkedin dms is that i
don't want to keep them on there i
eventually want to move them out and
talk to them somewhere else be there on
a phone call be on an email
virtual meeting whatever they want to do
i don't want to stay in dms with them
but for my rules for cta it's just one
just put
one call to action at the end yeah and
the way to move the conversation
forward um and i definitely like to play
with humor and that works for me
you know i'm not saying it can work for
everybody but i
i kind of like you know this light and
breezy approach with things
and sometimes just simply closing by
saying
does that sound like something that you
know you can see
around right now is enough you know you
don't
always have to be some sort of you know
sales geek level 10 you can just you
know
be honest because that trust and value
if they can feel it sense it then that's
the way that people are going to feel
comfortable to do that cta
yeah it's a nice little framework really
it doesn't sound like you need to
overthink it
you just
don't overthink it particularly with the
the people i work with in
video email because that realm of
uncomfortableness as soon as you start
using video is just like
off the scale people as soon as they
switch that camera on feel
massively uncomfortable and of course
they would it's super weird you know
you're looking at yourself you're
hearing your voice
you're noticing all these things about
yourself that you've never noticed
before
and then you start procrastinating and
wasting time because you're
overthinking things and and and that's
really one of the biggest time drains
for
sales professionals and business owners
because they're overthinking something
that doesn't need to be that complicated
sometimes just you know shoot from the
hip go for it
what's the worst that can happen you get
a no no that's not even a bad thing you
can learn from that you get a no reply
you keep trying
just detached and over stop the
overthinking really helps
yeah yeah great tip okay so that's
that's video messaging which is
definitely effective and like i've said
on the show many many times i can't
remember the last time i got a video
message from linkedin
or even via email i mean i send enough
myself especially on email
but i can't remember the last time i had
a video message i can't even well i have
the last
audio note i had i think was from you
mia but before that
probably weeks ago apart from the ones i
sent to my friends on whatsapp
i know and you see that's the great
thing isn't it so
and i get those replies every
every day every week from somebody going
oh wow i've never
had that before to both both video
messages
and voice notes you know how do i do
that and i think
crikey where have you been but unless
you know then
you why would you start using it so
there is still
so few people using that and we all
spend a lot of time
searching for our usp
and perhaps you don't need to think
about what your usp is anymore perhaps
that's gone
perhaps it's just you know what
differentiates you
um and i think that's one of the been
part of the evolvement of sales
is not only understanding
how you can communicate differently but
also how your
personal branding brings something to
the table now you know
you you it's not it's not cool to look
commoditized it's not
you know it's not great to look
corporate it's not
uh you know engaging to sound robotic
the fact that we've had this moment to
sort of peek into people's lives
and see the most crazy things in
people's backgrounds at home
has opened up this whole new
vulnerability that yeah most of us quite
like you know that
that real to real human to human
conversation is it's way more
way more fun way more engaging easier
oh i can't hear you saying well my mic
was muted i was saying sorry if you want
to pitch me i'd be much more open to a
video audio message
than um just a generic text one that's
for sure just because they're so few and
far apart
but moving the conversation on i know
you mentioned before mia
you should utilize all the tools in your
toolbox and i know before we hit record
you said we shouldn't just think about
communicating to our ideal customers our
prospects on the channels we like
so some people tuning in to this might
think i absolutely love video i've got
no issue with video
but i hate using the phone can't be
bothered to type an email
um can't be bothered to do a message or
whatever channel they may love
but at the end of the day we've got to
consider what our ideal customers like
so how do we utilize this approach um
so say for example we've not been able
to connect with our target
customer on linkedin how can we utilize
other channels
to at the same time not be annoying but
still kind of add this value approach
that we've been discussing
and get the meeting or get the next step
that we were going for with them
yeah the principle is the same whatever
part of your toolkit you use
so if you are prospecting and reaching
out for the first time
um and you haven't got it through social
selling in a dm so
you're probably gonna sit with an email
or the telephone
you're going to pick up the phone oh it
sounded so posh telephone
you're going to pick up the phone um so
whichever
one of those you choose for the
principle still stays the same
in the fact that i believe that on that
initial introduction
you've got to demonstrate to that
customer that you know them so that
you've got something valuable and
worthwhile
taking some time away from their busy
schedules
and that on that first point of contact
it is
not about selling anything it's about
introducing
and making them aware just that is the
word isn't it making them aware of you
and the solution that you have that
could possibly help them
and moving it on to another call or
conversation or
you know whatever part of the toolkit's
right for them
uh to then get the conversation going so
you know back to overthinking and that
first call is
is not a big deal as long as you are not
you know launching yourself at them and
dumping stuff
all over them and just you know saying
what you know
so that they can see that you understand
what they're going through
so that you can move on to another stage
yeah yeah i i appreciate that and i like
the the point you made
that you're you're essentially making
them aware of who you are
what you might be able to do for them or
might be able to possibly do for them
and understanding that not every
outreach is
is going to be a great fit that not
everyone you speak to ever
is is going to be um a potential deal
for you so
that's some really sound advice and once
we get a response on that channel should
we always do you think
do you recommend we always stick to the
same channel we get a response in ie if
we get a response on email do we stick
to that
if someone replies to our linkedin
message should we keep it to that or
should we be trying to move them
straight on the phone as soon as we
possibly can
um well yeah i think i think you know
phone is king
getting a conversation is always going
to be better than swapping voice notes
or video messages
or emails having dialogue is
the the objective that's what you want
to get it to to have a dialogue with
this person
because that's when you get that nice 50
50 flow you
you talk and listen ask questions and
respond
and that's that's the goal isn't it you
know having a great conversation with
somebody
so so no you don't stick to
the channel um but you mirror that
customer sort of
energy in a way and but guide them you
know there's there's nothing worse
than that sort of wishy-washy call to
action that's like
you know or perhaps let's have a call
next week if you're free
or you know should we book a zoom call
or you know
do you fancy uh sending me your mobile
and
whatsapp that you know help people
help them make a decision and you can do
that you know by
kind of you know directing them in a way
yeah yeah yeah makes sense being clear
on your offering and giving them that
clear clear action for the next step
so before we go into this you mentioned
you've got a bit of an engagement
strategy when it comes to linkedin mia
and i think if i remember right you also
said you tend to get a lot more
connections from rather than just the
content the post you put out
the comments you leave on other people's
posts which is quite interesting so
i'd love to learn a little bit more
about what you find an effective
strategy because that's not something
we've covered that much on the show and
what's what works for you what you
recommend people do there
yeah i i think it's really important
that
you know the one thing if you're going
to commit to
being a part of the community on
linkedin is
you know looking to to engage on
people's content and posts
um and i honestly have a lot more fun
doing that it's networking at that point
you know that's like you know being back
at
a great breakfast meeting or something
where you're you know
chatting and talking um and that's where
you learn a lot too you know that's when
your ear is to the ground and you can
hear what the community think about a
different subject
so i i always dedicate time during the
day
whether it's you know 15 block in the
morning you know with my morning coffee
and then another 15 minute block in the
evening
but i definitely look to make time every
day
to engage if i fail to post
i can cope with that you know i know
other people would you know have a bit
of a panic attack about that if they've
committed to that strategy
but as long as i am putting you know the
right kind of value out there
then i think that helps with notoriety
and you know i'm not a
linkedin influence or anything like that
but what i do know is it's working for
my business
um and that's what you've got to think
about not comparing yourself to
what you see other people are doing in
terms of you know what likes and
responses and that they're getting it's
evaluate what's happening to you and i
am happy that
80 of my leads and referrals are coming
in through linkedin
even my referrals you know from somebody
i am in direct contact with on a
mobile phone on email um you know on our
landlines
a customer of mine will then dm me
through linkedin to say hey this person
wants to talk to you
um and if that's how my my customers
want to be
then yeah i'm mirroring that i'm
replicating it so
yeah yeah yeah it's hugely powerful it's
something probably the main thing on
linkedin i'm guilty of not doing
so i'll spend all this time putting
together content in terms of the actual
posts or the videos i'm putting out but
then i'll
do that i'll waste all my time in the
morning doing that then i have to get on
with my day and then just
leave out the time to actually engage on
post which like you said sometimes can
be more effective by the sounds of it
well and you know what i think i find it
quite liberating as well
from posting content um sometimes that
that becomes quite quite pressured you
know for me
i fear i feel the weight of it at times
thinking
i just don't know what to say today or
that post bombed yesterday so is it
worth it it can
make you feel you know those emotional
things
whereas you know just commenting here
and there
you know is really just you know really
liberating for me and i
i don't feel the pressure and i don't
feel the burden and i feel those nice
things again that i'm adding
something to that person because i love
it when somebody comments on mine
so i'm pretty sure that they feel the
same way
um so i think you know sometimes don't
overthink the content
arch of it it's important i'm not
pushing it to one side
but if you just wanna you know grow your
contacts
and be visible without that pressure
then yeah it's worth worth putting time
and effort in there
definitely and on that note should we
should we think about when we when we
comment on posts in
the feed let's say is linkedin should we
think about if we can actually add value
or should we keep
stick to stuff that's within our sector
where we can actually talk about our own
experience or does it matter is it just
a case of
something that resonates with us we can
comment on we're showing in the feed
other people might see us and check out
our profile is that the approach
yeah i i think what there is to avoid
is just going in with that i loved it
um you know that vanilla answer doesn't
you know do enough um and can look like
you know you're part of a population
that you don't want to look like a part
of
so you know i think you can have
personality i think you can have humor
uh you can ask questions you know do
what's right for you
if if that's what your vibe is and how
you talk to people
um then you know put put what you think
people have put their posts up there for
a reason
talk about it talk about it love that
and just to wrap things up mia before we
hit record
you you mentioned which i really like
that people want uh buyers want to
engage
and deal with experts so in everything
that we've covered in the episode so far
and our outreaches
when we're connecting with people we
want to have conversations with we're
trying not to annoy them we
want to give them value and and
generating those meetings those demos
whatever our next step
is how can we portray that we are
actually an expert
we are professional we know what we're
talking about we're not just an idiot
that's trying to flog them anything from
we've just found from down the street
oh wow that's a big question huge
question i know
really really huge the the way you
demonstrate your expertise is putting
time and effort into grafting to learn
those facts
um so you know you shouldn't be
sending a message or picking up the
phone or doing
anything with a template that you've
used before
without doing your research so
you know if you want the perfect
lifestyle you've got a time block in
your diary
to do research and understands the
people that you
are prospecting and want to connect with
and by
doing that research then that's how you
come to the table with
expertise um and if you if you're not
sure what that is you know i always
recommend
you know phone your top 10 customers at
the moment
um and ask them three four really good
questions about
why they're working with you and
whenever they give you an answer
and ask them a bit more on that so if
they said you know i'm working with you
because you are
really hilarious i mean that happens
often um
but you know what is it about me that's
really funny
well it's uh the fact that you think
you're funny but you're not
okay so you say i'm not funny but you
know so just drilling down
on that gives you all the insight
and all the content you need to have
great conversations so even if you don't
know where to start
start with the people that are already
your advocates
in your fan club and you know going to
them and saying can you help me
rarely people say no to that little plea
so
find out why you did a great job for
them why it made a difference and that's
how you lead with the expertise on those
first few sentences and conversations
with that person
great yeah yeah exactly
exactly something something we talk
about when we're when we're dealing with
websites marketing strategies
if you don't know what to put on your
site don't just go off what you think
looks good and this could be
applied to any type of content marketing
whatever you're doing sales outreach
talk to your customers because they'll
tell you exactly why they chose to work
with you why they bought from you what
their problem was
how you help them resolve it how you're
helping them ongoing and use that as the
content whether it's on your website
whether it's on your marketing your
sales outreach
that is the information you need to be
sharing not just whatever comes into
your mind that's that's the goal that
can really help other people with
similar problems
work with and position you as a trusted
advisor really solid advice mia
and with that i want to thank you very
much for coming on the show
pleasure please do tell us a bit more
about how people can learn from you how
people can connect with you and the best
way to get in touch
yeah sure so no surprises you can find
my profile on linkedin which is mia
butler
and i would love you to pat and
interrupt my day so
connect and dm me no problem excellent
stuff mia thanks very much for for
coming on we'll put a link to everything
your your linkedin your business and
such in the show notes over at
businessgrowth.marketing and thanks once
again really appreciate
it hey no worries thanks so much cheers
and if you enjoyed the show
be sure to hit subscribe to business
growth show wherever the heck you get
your podcast from we interview two
business leaders
each and every week to provide
actionable tips across marketing sales
all to help you grow your business and
with that we'll catch you on the next
episode